It requires sensitivity to express true feeling of love.
Descriptive: Sensitivity is towards particular way we talk, express our feelings and understand other person. Feelings of love get impaired if we do not talk nicely to others, and try to tease or find fault.

Behavior, proper communication, hurt, sensitive, compassion

Text:
People often presume that they love other person, but are unaware whether such feelings are conveyed in the manner other person perceives it. It indicates lack of sensitivity to express feelings of love. What is the point in claiming to be in love with other person if you fail to bring such feelings in other person?

Love is a means of communication of good feelings to the other person. It is wish for welfare, success and happiness of a person. These feelings develop when we love a person. It makes us conscious of which actions of ours will make other person feel better. Express feelings to a person in a way it matches with his/ her sensitivity. Love making is a personal affair and each person would like to feel about love in a particular manner. Love demands emotional closeness through care, compassion, tolerance and understanding,

Sensitivity is towards particular way we talk, express our feelings and understand other person. If we take care of sensitivity of other person in these matters; it will help in more harmonious relation and better mutual understanding. Feelings of love get impaired if we do not talk nicely to others, and try to tease or find fault. Take care while talking so that in any way we do not hurt other person. There will be number of occasions in our life when we will differ with others. If a person out of ego behaves superior, it makes other person feel small and hurt.

It is usual to differ on various issues depending on background, education and overall interest. Is it worth to argue for long period to prove your point of view on any topic? It is to show your superiority. Let us not compete while arguing a point so that other person does not feel let down. These discussions ought to be more informative in nature. Let knowledge do not come in our way to block a better relationship with other person. While talking to a child, we talk in the language a child understands. We ourselves behave like a child. In the similar manner, we ought to talk to other person in the manner he or she likes and understands. The language used is the one that can bring us on same wavelength with that of other person. These are real life situations which each person observes, but we often ignore it. People fail to assess sensitivity of the other person and not able to connect emotionally.

The other person is not interested to know about your successes and achievement. To derive close loving feelings, discuss issues relating to the welfare of that person. Discuss his/her achievements, problems and overall welfare. Take interest in other person’s welfare. Provide encouragement, sympathy or consolation whatever desired to boost the morale of that person. Take genuine interest in the other person so that he/she feels free to reveal his inner feelings. The body language talks lot and gives different meaning to other person. Be sensitive to align your body language to make a positive impact on other person. Love and happiness can be achieved only if able to match the sensitivity of other person. The genuine need to bring happiness in the other person helps in understanding the sensitivity of that person.

Love is subtle in nature and it does not have immediate tangible benefits. We need certain transformation within to develop a feeling of love and concern for others. These feelings come provided we value welfare of others as important as our own, and this gets reflected in our attitude towards others. Some people by heart are considerate and helpful to others. People who consider self- interest more important take time to develop these finer qualities. What we expect from life directs our responses and dealings with other people. Apart from how other people treat us, it is our inner urge that drives us to feel love and concern for other people.

We often find couples depicting love towards each other in presence of others by routinely hugging and kissing. People say ‘I Love You’ too often to others around them, but have to find within whether they are true to their word. To express love only through words is not sufficient. It has to be depicted in action. Sometimes, we are not sure of our love towards others, but repeat these words of love to satisfy that person.

What is offered in love to others be in a subtle manner, without giving feeling of obligation to the receiver. If some help is imparted out of our ego, it may not generate any love for that person. Take care of other person’s worries and find out what makes him/her better. Help in improving self esteem of other person. There are lot of people to find fault if things do not turn out properly. It is our role to make other person feel better against difficulties and odds by enhancing self-esteem and focusing on good things. Do not be quick to point out weakness of a person. This attitude makes other person feel inferior. Take care of sensitivity of a person and make him or her feel better in your company. Subtleness in love is something that is not to be expressed in words but actions speaks of the concern for the other person.

Love of mother for the children is example of subtle form of love. She will try to protect the child from all the criticism. She will not disown the child if not doing well in life. Her love is not limited by external factors. Whether the child is intelligent or not, she will continue to take care of the child. She is sensitive to the feelings of the child.

Help could come in the form of reducing the burden of worries through encouragement. Praise other person for any good thing accomplished. All these forms of expressing love are more subtle in nature and other person feels more carried out by these feelings. Our caring nature and sensitivity to the feelings of other person help in improving quality of our love. Each kiss and hug ought to accompany love through more subtle manner.

In the true love towards other person, it involves absolute truthfulness without fear of deception. This requires honesty with the other person. Believe something about the person but express it differently shows lack of honesty. Mind and heart have to be in unison, when we deal with the person, so as to adopt honesty in our thought and deeds. In the matter of dealing with other people, we are influenced by our feelings of love and affection generated through our heart while our mind values the relationship based on mutual benefit. It becomes matter of inner conflict as how much we should give in a relation and how much to receive. At times whatever we express may not be necessarily what we feel about the person. Our relationship at times lacks sensitivity which affects true love.

To be in love with others is the need of soul, same as food is the need of our body. We always feel urge to connect with the other person through love and feeling of intimacy. Being intimate with others does not mean physical intimacy, but it encompasses broader meaning of better understanding through love and compassion. Intimacy requires that we open our hearts and fill it with the love of the other soul. Love others as your soul mates so as to be in true love with the other person.